Unlike other computer games in which the computer picks a number or
letter and you must guess what it is, in this game you think of an
animal and the computer asks you questions and tries to guess the name
of the animal. If the computer guesses incorrectly, if will ask you
for a question that differentiates the animal it guessed from the
animal you were thinking of. In this way the computer "learns" new
animals. Questions to differentiate new animals should be input
without a question mark.

This version of the game does not have a SAVE feature. If your system
allows, you may modify the program to save array A$, then reload the
array when you want to play the game again. This way you can save what
the computer learns over a series of games.

At any time if you reply "LIST" to the question "ARE YOU THINKING OF
AN ANIMAL," the computer will tell you all the animals it knows so
far.

The program starts originally by knowing only FISH and BIRD. As you
build up a file of animals you should use broad, general questions
first and then narrow down to more specific ones with later animals.
For example, if an elephant was to be your first animal, the computer
would ask for a question to distinguish an elephant from a bird.
Naturally there are hundreds of possibilities, however, if you plan to
build a large file of animals a good question would be "IS IT A
MAMMAL".

This program can be easily modified to deal with categories of things
other than animals by simply modifying the initial data in Line 530
and the dialogue references to animal in Lines 10, 40, 50, 130, 230,
240, and 600. In an educational environment, this would be a valuable
program to teach the distinguishing characteristics of many classes of
objects -- rock formations, geography, marine life, cell structures,
etc.

Originally developed by Arthur Luehrmann at Dartmouth College, Animal
was subsequently shortened and modified by Nathan Teichholtz at DEC
and Steve North at Creative Computing.
