             My Side

     | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 |
 My  |ooo|ooo|ooo|ooo|ooo|ooo| Your
Home |                       | Home
     |ooo|ooo|ooo|ooo|ooo|ooo|
     | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 |

            Your Side

Awari is an ancient African game played with seven sticks and
thirty-six stones or beans laid out as shown above. The board is
divided into six compartments or pits on each side. In addition, there
are two special home pits at the ends.

A move is made by taking all of the beans from any (non-empty) pit on
your own side. Starting from the pit to the right of this one, these
beans are 'sown' one in each pit working around the board
anticlockwise.

A turn consists of one or two moves. If the last bean of your move is
sown in your own home you may take a second move.

If the last bean sown in a move lands in an empty pit, provided that
the opposite pit is not empty, all the beans in the opposite pit,
together with the last bean sown are 'captured' and moved to the
player's home.

When either side is empty, the game is finished. The player with the
most beans in his home has won.

In the computer version, the board is printed as 14 numbers
representing the 14 pits.

     3  3  3  3  3  3
  0                   0
     3  3  3  3  3  3

The pits on your "lower" side are numbered 1-6 from left to right. The
pits on my (the computer's) side are numbered from my left (your
right).

To make a move you type in the number of a pit. If the last bean lands
in your home, the computer types 'AGAIN?' and you then type in your
second move.

The computer's move is typed, followed by a diagram of the board in
its new state. The computer always offers you the first move. This is
considered to be a slight advantage.

There is a learning mechanism in the program that causes the play of
the computer to improve as it plays more games.

This version of Awari is adopted from one written by Geoff Wyvill of
Bradford, Yorkshire, England.
