BATTLE is based on the popular game Battleship which is primarily
played to familiarize people with the location and designation of
points on a coordinate plane.

BATTLE first randomly sets up the bad guys' fleet disposition on a 6
by 6 matrix or grid. The fleet consists of six ships: Two destroyers
(ships number 1 and 2) which are two units long, two cruisers (ships
number 3 and 4) which are three units long and two aircraft carriers
(ships number 5 and 6) which are four units long. The program then
prints out this fleet disposition in a coded or disguised format (see
the sample computer print-out). You then proceed to sink the various
ships by typing in the coordinates (two digits, X and Y, each from 1
to 6) of the place where you want to drop a bomb, if you'll excuse the
expression. The computer gives the appropriate responses (splash, hit,
etc.) which you should record on a 6 by 6 matrix. You are thus
building a representation of the actual fleet disposition which you
will hopefully use to decode the coded fleet disposition printed out
by the computer. Each time a ship is sunk, the computer prints out
which ships have been sunk so far and also gives you a "SPLASH/HIT
RATIO."

The first thing you should learn is how to locate and designate
positions on the matrix, and specifically the difference between X=3,
Y=4 and X=4, Y=3. Our method corresponds to the location of points on
the coordinate plane rather than the location of numbers in a standard
algebraic matrix: the X value gives the column counting from left to
right and the Y value gives the row counting from bottom to top.

The second thing you should learn about is the splash/hit ratio. "What
is a ratio?" A good reply is "It's a fraction or quotient."
Specifically, the splash/hit ratio is the number of splashes divided
by the number of hits. If you had 9 splashes and 15 hits, the ratio
would be 9/15 or 3/5, both of which are correct. The computer would
give this splash/hit ratio as .6.

The main objective and primary educational benefit of BATTLE comes
from attempting to decode the bad guys' fleet disposition code. To do
this, you must make a comparison between the coded matrix and the
actual matrix which you construct as you play the game.

The original author of both the program and these descriptive notes is
Ray Westergard of the Lawrence Hall of Science, Berkeley, California.

  6 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  5 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  5 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  3 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  2 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  1 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  1 +---+---+---+---+---+---+
    0   1   2   3   4   5   6
